while both Israel and Hamas have been
accused of violating International
humanitarian law with their attacks on
civilians Israel has dropped thousands
of bombs on crowded residential areas of
Gaza flattening entire neighborhoods and
these indiscriminate attacks on
civilians are in violation of article 25
of the hay conventions a series of
international treaties now legal experts
say the intentional targeting of
civilians by both Hamas and Israel also
constitut a war crime the Israeli
military has imposed a total Siege on
Gaza Palestinians and Aid workers say
the lack of food medicine Fuel and basic
supplies has made the situation in the
Gaza Strip catastrophic 101 healthcare
workers have been killed in Gaza and 25
ambulances have been damaged the World
Health Organization says the evacuation
order for hospitals in Northern Gaza is
quote a death sentence for newborn
babies and patients in intensive care
and Palestinians in Gaza describe the
forced evacuation order in the North and
the Relentless bombardment as collective
punishment and under the Fourth Geneva
Convention Israel as the occupying power
is prohibited from deporting or
transferring part of the population from
the land that it occupies we can get
more on this with Jeffrey Robertson he's
a former United Nations war crimes judge
he's joining us from London welcome to
Al jazer sir so um we know that the
United Nations Commission of inquiry
said that it was collecting evidence of
war crimes committed by all sides they
said this at the beginning of the war
now one of the goals of the Geneva
Convention is to protect civilians who
aren't involved in the fighting can we
safely say that what we're seeing here
is a Defiance of the Geneva
Convention yes it is and war crimes are
being committed the first the provoked
the second was the Hamas barbaric attack
on Israel killing and taking hostages
which is contrary to the Geneva
conventions and to the international
criminal court law so that gives Israel
the right indeed the duty to pursue uh
the attackers to find if they can the
hostages to arrest and prosecute the
Hamas leaders who gave these horrific
orders not to to mutilate uh the
Prisoners the the people people that
they killed now then we have the Israeli
cabinet the Prime Minister and his War
cabet who have
authorized what is an indiscriminate
bombing campaign and indeed a form of
starvation there are war crimes because
the bombing has been indiscriminate Aid
agencies at the moment uh estimate
2,700 children have been killed uh that
is truly appalling and it
is it's something that is being
discussed today and tomorrow at the UN
General Assembly but You' got to
understand the general assembly is a
talking shop the Fatal flaw in the UN is
that all decisions must be made by the
security Council and the Security
Council is poxed and can't make any
decision because of the vetto wielded by
Russia wielded by yeah we certainly keep
an eye out on what happens at the
general assembly but just back to the
issue of of uh war crimes and these
violations of international law that the
UN Chief is describing taking place in
Gaza with these violations with children
being killed with children with children
being being being killed tar Israelis
targeting the hospitals as well as the
shelters how can these people how can
the women and the children the innocent
civilians be protected from these
attacks very obviously they can't be
because as I say the security Council
has the only Power and it's not it's
ineffective hopelessly
divided and Mr GES has made some
reasonable and sensible uh views uh and
has been attacked for them but but there
it is until we can have an operational
system of international law children are
being killed in Ukraine by barbaric
bombing by Russia and it's a bad time if
you like to be a child and the general
assembly is quite sickening you see the
Diplomat from Iran talking about war
crimes when Iran is guilty of the worst
crimes against humanity
uh in the past so there it is we have a
world where law international law is not
enforced and where war crimes can be
committed by uh a government an elected
government uh with with almost
impunity so how can these parties be
held accountable sir how can these
parties be held accountable under
International humanit law well
eventually
eventually those involved in the
decisions both by Hamas and by Israel
may be arrested abroad and they may be
prosecuted in courts the I the
international criminal court can take
out indictments and certainly should
against Hass leaders it can take out
indictments against Mr Netanyahu and
his War cabinet but at the end of the
day but seeing that Israel doesn't
recognize the jurisdiction of the
IC can that work I mean who will hold
Israel to account does America nor
Russia so this is the difficulty we have
international law sure but we don't have
an effective system we can pick it up
there can be uh as I say prosecutions in
the future and people like mosovich
people like madic and kich have been
prosecuted 20 years after their crimes
and uh are now in prison but it's a long
process and uh we don't even have a c
tribunal to punish aggression right
which was committed notably by Russia
thank you so much Jeffrey Robertson we
appreciate your time thank you so much
we have to leave it there thank
you